Animal Training~Mage, Rogue, Warrior~You know the basics of dealing with animals. With a week of training, you can teach an animal to follow a simple one-word command like "heel," "follow," or "attack." You can teach a single animal a number of commands equal to your Communication. You can train fairly common animals: dogs, mabari, birds of prey, etc. Training requires a TN of 13 with a success threshold of 10. After the animal is completely trained, you can also add the Elite template to it or turn a non-combatant animal into a combatant (such as training a riding horse as a war horse able to attack on command).~You can train animals to follow more complex commands, like "guard this place" or "return to me when strangers approach." Teaching a complex command takes two weeks of training and the total number of commands a single animal can learn is equal to your Communication +2. You can train larger and uncommon animals: black bears, halla, horses, bronto, giant rats, wolves. Training requires a TN of 15 with a success threshold of 15. After the animal is completely trained at this level, you can add the Heroic template to it.~Your training can turn animals into prime examples of their kind. With a month of training, it gains the Willpower (Morale) focus. You can train exotic and rare animals: great bears, great lions, giant spiders, wyverns. Training requires a TN of 17 with a success threshold of 20. After the animal is completely trained at this level, you can add the Epic template to it.~None~You know how to train animals. Fereldans commonly train dogs, while Avvar prefer falcons and other birds of prey.
Armor Training~Warrior~You can wear leather and mail armor without suffering a penalty to Dexterity.~You can wear plate armor without suffering a penalty to Dexterity.~You can get the most out of your armor. You gain the benefit of half the Armor Rating (rounded down) of your armor when you take penetrating damage. (Normally, armor provides no defense against penetrating damage.)~None~You have learned to fight while wearing armor. You only take the armor's penalty to your Speed, while those without this talent suffer the penalty to all Dexterity-based tests and calculations (including Speed).
Arcane Warrior~Mage~You learn a new weapon group of your choice, and you can use Magic to satisfy the minimum Strength requirement of weapons. You can also enter Combat Magic mode by taking an activate action. While in this mode, you add Magic instead of Strength to your damage with melee weapons. However, any spell you cast in Combat Magic mode has its mana point cost increased by 2. You can end Combat Magic mode with another activate action.~You reduce the strain of any armor you wear by 3. You are also allowed to take the Armor Training talent, which is normally restricted to warriors.~When you activate Combat Magic mode, you can spend 5 MP to shift yourself so you exist partly in the real world and partly in the Fade. This is called a Fade Shroud and it gives you a ghostly countenance that is obvious and unsettling to many. A Fade Shroud increases your Defense by 3 but you must pay 3 mana points per round (at the start of your turn) to maintain it. If you do not, the effect ends immediately (though Combat Magic mode remains active).~MAG and DEX 3+~You have learned a potent mix of magic and melee skills.
Archery Style~Rogue, Warrior~Your aim is true. When you take the aim action while using a bow or crossbow, you gain a +2 bonus on your attack roll instead of the usual +1.~Due to long hours of practice, you can reload faster than common bowmen. You can reload a bow as a free action and a crossbow as a minor action.~When shooting a bow or crossbow, you can perform the Lightning Attack stunt for 2 stunt points instead of the usual 3. (If you are using a crossbow you'll also need to perform a Rapid Reload stunt to take advantage of this benefit, since you must have a loaded weapon to use Lightning Attack.)~Training with Bows group~You are experienced with bows and crossbows.
Assassin~Rogue~You can assess a nearby opponent and spot weaknesses that can be exploited in combat. With an activate action you can mark for death a visible target within 10 yards of you. All ranged and melee attacks against a target marked for death receive a +1 damage bonus. The mark lasts until the end of the encounter, the target is slain, or you pick a new target with another activate action. You can't have active marks on multiple targets at the same time. A character cannot be marked for death more than once in the same encounter.~Your attacks are sudden, precise, and deadly. When you use the rogue's Dirty Fighting power, your opponent's Constitution (Stamina) tests are TN 17 instead of TN 15. Additionally, once per encounter, you can use the Dirty Fighting power as a free action.~You know how to exploit your target's weaknesses. When you Backstab an opponent you have marked for death, you inflict an extra 1d6 damage.~CUN and DEX 3+~You know how to kill quickly and efficiently.
Bard~Rogue~You can sing a Song of Valor. Allies within 12 yards of you gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls as long as the song is maintained.~You can sing a Song of Friendship. It can be used in a combat encounter like the other songs, but it's more appropriate for roleplaying encounters. You perform a song for those assembled that affirms the power of camaraderie and harmony. Until the end of a roleplaying encounter (or for as long as it's maintained during a combat encounter), you and your allies gain a +1 bonus to Communication (Etiquette), (Investigation), (Persuasion), and {Seduction) tests.~You can sing a Song of Captivation. Once per round while singing the song, you can attempt to captivate one opponent within 16 yards. This is an opposed test of your Communication (Performance) vs. the target's Willpower (Self-Discipline). If you win, the target can take no actions on their next turn.~COM and DEX 3+, and Music (Novice) focus~You learn songs that can uplift and captivate. Starting a song is a major action. On subsequent rounds, you can maintain a song with a free action.
Berserker~Warrior~You can drive yourself into a killing frenzy. First you must use the activate action to enter the Berserk mode. You receive a +2 bonus on Willpower (Courage) and Willpower (Morale) tests while in this mode. You also receive a +1 bonus on your damage rolls in melee combat. However, you suffer a -1 penalty to Defense and to Perception tests while Berserk. You return to normal at the end of the encounter or if you force yourself out of the mode with another activate action.~Your rage becomes more potent. While Berserk you gain the same bonuses and penalties as described in the Novice entry, but your bonus damage in melee combat increases to +3.~Your fury is unstoppable! When Berserk, you can perform the Lethal Blow stunt for 4 stunt points instead of the usual 5.~STR and WIL 3+~You use your rage as a weapon.
Blood Mage~Mage~You can use your own blood to power your spells. First, you must use the activate action to enter the Blood Magic mode. When casting a spell in this mode, you can inflict 1d6 penetrating damage on yourself and you gain mana points equal to the damage. The mana points so generated must be used on the spell you are casting this round; any excess are lost. You can use this mana to cast spells from any school but you must be in Blood Mage mode to cast Blood spells. While in this mode, you cannot be healed with potions or Creation spells. You can end Blood Magic mode with another activate action.~You can use the blood of a willing ally to power your spells. This works as per the Novice degree, but your ally takes the damage. The ally must be within 6 yards of you when you cast the spell.~You can use anyone's blood to power your spells. You can pick a target with 6 yards of you and attempt to use their blood as a minor action. Success requires an opposed test of your Magic (Blood) vs. the target's Willpower (Faith or Self-Discipline). If you win things work as per the Journeyman degree. If the target is adjacent to you and helpless (unconscious, tied up, etc.), you inflict 2d6 penetrating damage (and perhaps understand why mages of the Tevinter Imperium were not so popular).~CON and MAG 3+~You have learned the forbidden art of Blood Magic.
Carousing~Mage, Rogue, Warrior~You can drink other people under the table. When making Constitution (Drinking) tests as part of an advanced test, you gain a +1 bonus to the result of each Dragon Die. This allows you to reach the success threshold faster.~The tavern is your second home. Choose one of the following Communication focuses: Gambling or Seduction. If you fail a Communication test with your chosen focus, you can re-roll it but you must keep the result of the second roll.~When you're having a good time, (you think) you're invincible! Choose one of the following roleplaying stunts: Flirt or Tower of Will. You can perform that stunt for 3 SP instead of the usual 4 SP and you gain a +1 bonus to the opposed roll for that stunt. Thus, if you choose Tower of Will, your bonus on opposed tests is +2 instead of the usual +1.~COM or CON 1+~You take your fun seriously.
Champion~Warrior~Your battle roar intimidates your opponents. When you take the charge action, you can shout a war cry that gives all enemies within 8 yards of your charge's final position a -1 on attack rolls on their next turn.~You can lead your allies in an inspired defense. First, you must use the activate action to enter Rally mode. Your allies within 8 yards of you gain a +1 Defense and a +1 on Willpower (Morale) tests while this mode is active. You can end Rally with another activate action.~Your presence on the battlefield cannot be ignored. When in Rally mode, your Journeyman effects affect allies within 12 yards of you. They also receive a +1 bonus on Willpower (Courage) tests and inflict +1 damage with melee attacks.~COM and STR 3+~You are a beacon of strength on the battlefield.
Chevalier~Warrior~You learn the Lances Weapon Group. You also learn to unnerve your enemies with well-chosen insults. You can perform the Taunt stunt for 1 SP instead of the usual 2. You may substitute Communication (Etiquette) for Communication (Deception) when making the stunt's opposed test at your option. This represents the Orlesian art of being polite and insulting at the same time.~Your lance hits with the strength of a golem. When making a mounted charge, you can add 1d6 to your damage if you are wielding a weapon from the Lances Group. If wielding any other melee weapon, you inflict +1 damage instead.~You get the most from your steed. While mounted, you can run as a minor action and add +1 to your Defense when you do.~STR and DEX 3+, and Mounted Combat Style (Journeyman) talent~You are the elite of Orlais.
Chirurgy~Mage, Rogue, Warrior~You have trained in the art of chirurgy and your aid is swift and sure. Heal is a minor action for you.~You have the hands of a healer. When you use the heal action, your ally gets back an amount of Health equal to (Dragon Die x 2) + Cunning.~Your healing ability is legendary. When you use the heal action, your ally gets back an amount of Health equal to (Dragon Die x 3) + Cunning.~CUN (Healing) focus~You can treat wounds and illnesses.
Command~Mage, Warrior~Your presence inspires your allies. If you take a major action to make a heroic gesture (raise your sword, shout a battle cry, wave a flag, etc.), your allies gain a +1 bonus to Willpower (Courage) tests for the rest of the encounter.~Your allies follow your lead. Any NPCs that you lead gain a +1 bonus when rolling for initiative.~When you stand firm, your allies stand with you. When you lead NPCs in an encounter, they do not have to take a Willpower (Morale) test until more than two-thirds of your side's combatants are out of the fight (dead or incapacitated). If you leave the fight or fall in battle, this benefit is lost.~COM 2+~You are a natural leader.
Contacts~Mage, Rogue, Warrior~You can attempt to make a contact out of a NPC with a successful Communication (Persuasion) test. The GM will set the target number based on the likelihood of you knowing the NPC or having mutual friends. The more distant the NPC's homeland or social class from yours, the more difficult the test will be. A contact will be friendly to you, but won't go out of the way to help you without additional motivation. You can't make a contact out of a NPC who already dislikes you or is an enemy.~Once you've established a contact, you can try to get a favor with another successful Communication (Persuasion) test. The target number is based on the nature of the favor and whether it puts the contact in any danger.~You can turn an acquaintance into an ally with a show of loyalty. If you do a significant favor for a contact, they will treat you as a friend when you ask them for favors. They will go out of their way to help you and will be willing to put themselves in danger for you.~COM 1+~You know people, sometimes in the unlikeliest places.
Creation Magic~Mage~You can summon a light wisp without spending mana points. The wisp hovers near your shoulder until dismissed, illuminating a 10-yard radius around you with the brightness of a lantern. Summoning and dismissing the light wisp are free actions.~Your knowledge of Creation magic is deep. When you cast a Creation spell, its cost in mana points is reduced by 1, to a minimum of 1. You also gain one new Creation spell.~Creation magic flows through you, granting you a +1 bonus to Defense. You also gain one new Creation spell.~MAG (Creation) focus~You have delved into the secrets of Creation magic.
Dual Weapon Style~Rogue, Warrior~Wielding two weapons can aid you in attack or defense. If you take the activate action, you can gain either a +1 bonus on your melee attack rolls or a +1 Defense bonus vs. melee attacks until the end of the encounter. You can switch the bonus you are taking with another activate action.~You can perform the Lightning Attack stunt for 2 SP instead of the usual 3 but the extra attack must come from your secondary weapon.~You can overwhelm opponents with blows from both weapons. If you make a melee attack with your primary weapon and you are not charging, you can make another attack with your secondary weapon as a minor action. The second attack cannot generate stunt points, and you only add half of your Strength (rounded down) to damage.~DEX 2+~You can fight with a weapon in your main hand (your primary weapon) and another in your off hand (your secondary weapon). Neither can be a two-handed weapon, and the secondary weapon is considered to have a Minimum Strength 2 higher than normal (you'd need Strength 1 to use a shortsword as a secondary weapon, for example). Unless otherwise stated, your attacks come from the primary weapon.
Duelist~Rogue~You learn the Dueling Weapon Group, a weapon group unique to Duelists. When fighting in the Dual Weapon Style and using a melee weapon that uses Dexterity, you gain both +1 on your attack rolls and +1 Defense vs. melee attacks. (Normally when fighting in that style, you must choose between these benefits.)~Your precise attacks hit opponents where it hurts. While fighting in the Dual Weapon Style, you inflict +1 damage with melee attacks.~Your pinpoint accuracy can find the gaps in your opponents' armor. When you perform the Pierce Armor stunt, your damage is penetrating. (That stunt normally halves your opponent's Armor Rating, but penetrating damage allows you to ignore it altogether.)~DEX and PER 3+, and Dual Weapon Style (Novice) talent~You are a master of speed and precision on the battlefield.
Entropy Magic~Mage~You gain deathsight. When someone you can see drops to 0 Health, you can tell how many rounds it will take him to die.~When you cast an Entropy spell, its cost in mana points is reduced by 1, to a minimum of 1. You also gain one new Entropy spell.~Entropy magic is so strong in you that opponents making melee attacks against you suffer a -1 penalty to Strength. You also gain one new Entropy spell.~MAG (Entropy) focus~You have delved into the secrets of Entropy magic.
Force Mage~Mage~You learn the Force Mage spell 'Fist of the Maker'.~You learn the Force Mage spell 'Telenkinetic Burst'.~Your mastery of force magic makes you unshakable. When an opponent uses the Skirmish or Knock Prone stunts on you, you can negate the effect by spending mana points: 1 per use of Skirmish and 2 for Knock Prone.~MAG and WIL 3+~You are adept at manipulating the raw power of magic.
Guardian~Warrior~You can protect an ally with the tactical use of your shield and body. Choose an ally and enter Guardian mode with an activate action. When this ally is adjacent to you, they gain a +2 to their Armor Rating. However, each time your ally takes damage, you take 2 points of penetrating damage. You can choose to switch your protection to a different ally with a free action. You can leave Guardian mode with a free action.~Once you plant yourself, you cannot be moved. While in Guardian mode, the Skirmish and Knock Prone stunts have no effect on you.~Those who attack your charge suffer the consequences. When you are in Guardian mode and an opponent successfully hits or damages your protected ally, you can immediately attack that opponent (moving up to 2 yards to get adjacent if necessary) as a free action, generating stunt points as usual. You may only do this once per round. After the attack, the normal initiative order resumes. This retaliation does not count as your turn.~CON and DEX 3+, and Weapon and Shield Style (Journeyman) talent~You know how to protect others.
Horsemanship~Mage, Rogue, Warrior~You can jump into the saddle quickly. Mounting a steed is a free action for you.~You can ride like the wind. When you ride a mount, it gains a +2 bonus to its Speed.~You were born in the saddle. You add +1 to your Defense while mounted. You may also re-roll a failed Dexterity (Riding) test, but you must keep the result of the second roll.~DEX (Riding) focus~You are a skilled rider and can handle horses and other beasts of burden with ease.
Intrigue~Mage, Rogue, Warrior~You know how to play the Game. Choose one of the following Communication focuses: Etiquette, Deception, or Seduction. If you fail a Communication test with your chosen focus, you can re-roll it but you must keep the result of the second roll.~You always gain more information than you give out. You can perform the And Another Thing roleplaying stunt for 1 SP instead of the usual 2. In addition, you gain a +1 bonus on any further tests the stunt allows.~You know how to end a conversation. You can perform the Stunned Silence roleplaying stunt for 2 SP instead of the usual 3. In addition, you have the opportunity to change this immediately into a combat encounter. If you do so, you and one ally per extra stunt point you spend can act in the first round of combat. Everyone else is surprised.~COM 2+~You are a master of secrets.
Keeper~Mage~You learn the Keeper spell 'Wrath of the Elvhen'.~You learn the Keeper spell 'Ensnare'.~You can tap into the natural cycle of death and rebirth. When you kill an enemy with the spell wrath of the elvhen, you get back 1d6 Health if you are wounded. If you are already at full Health, you gain no benefit.~Dalish elf with CUN and MAG 3+~You have learned the ancient secrets of elven magic.
Legionnaire~Rogue~Gain a +2 bonus to any tests to resist pain, hunger, fear, or despair.~The combat stunts Mighty Blow and Lethal Blow cost an extra stunt point when used against a legionnaire scout (so 3 SP for Mighty Blow and 6 SP for Lethal Blow).~You can shrug off the worst damage through force of will alone. Gain a bonus to your Armor Rating equal to half your Willpower (round up, minimum 2). This bonus stacks with other armor and is present even if no other armor is worn.~WIL and CON 3+, Dwarf belonging to Legion of the Dead.~You can endure any hardship to aid your people and complete your mission.
Linguistics~Mage, Rogue, Warrior~You learn an additional language from the following list: Ancient Tevene, Ander, Antivan, Arcanum, Dwarven, Elven, Orlesian, Qunlat, Rivaini, Trade Tongue.~You learn an additional language from the previous list. You can also imitate a specific dialect with a successful Communication (Performance) test.~You learn two more languages from the previous list. You can also pick any one language you know and speak it like a native-that is, without an accent.~CUN 1+~You can learn new languages easily. Some of the listed languages are spoken in lands far from Ferelden and are not commonly heard there. When you learn a new language, you learn to both speak and read it, with two exceptions. Ancient Tevene is rarely, if ever, spoken outside Tevinter. Elven is only spoken because the Keepers keep it alive.
Lore~Mage, Rogue, Warrior~You have studied hard. When you make a successful Cunning test with a lore focus, the GM should give you an extra piece of information on the topic. A lore focus is any Cunning focus with the word "lore" in it, such as Cultural Lore and Historical Lore. The GM determines the additional information and it may or may not be pertinent to the main question at hand.~You are an accomplished researcher. When making Cunning (Research) tests as part of an advanced test, you gain a +1 bonus to the result of each Dragon Die. This allows you to reach the success threshold faster. Advanced tests are detailed on page 213; ask your GM if you want to know more.~While your knowledge is vast, you have two areas of particular specialization. Pick any two of your lore focuses. When making tests using those focuses, you can re-roll a failed test but you must keep the result of the second roll.~CUN 2+~You have an inquisitive mind and absorb facts easily.
Marksman~Rogue~Your missile attacks are so powerful they can fling opponents back and knock them off their feet. You can perform the Knock Prone stunt for 1 SP instead of the usual 2 when making ranged attacks. Additionally, you may push the target straight back 2 yards before applying the knockdown. (This is similar to the Skirmish stunt but more limited).~You can unleash a storm of missiles on your opponents. You can perform the volley stunt for 5 SP. This allows you to make two more ranged attacks, at the same target or at others in sight and within 10 yards. You must have a loaded missile weapon to make a ranged attack, so use of up to two Rapid Reload stunts may be required to use volley. If you roll doubles on either of these attack rolls, you do not generate any additional stunt points.~You can find the vulnerable spot on any opponent. When you perform the Pierce Armor stunt with a ranged attack, your damage is penetrating. (That stunt normally halves your opponent's Armor Rating, but penetrating damage allows you to ignore it altogether.)~DEX and PER 3+, and either Archery Style (Journeyman) or Thrown Weapon Style (Journeyman) talent~You are an expert shot.
Mounted Combat Style~Warrior~You can use the mobility of your mount to your advantage in combat. When mounted and making a move action, you can move part of your allowed distance, then use your major action to make a melee or ranged attack, and then move the rest of your allowed distance. The total distance moved cannot be more than your mount's Speed. Normally, you'd have to finish moving before attacking.~Your mounted charge is fearsome. You can move at your mount's full Speed when making a charge action and inflict +1 damage if your attack strikes home.~You and your mount are one. The Knock Prone stunt cannot dismount you.~DEX (Riding) focus~You are trained cavalry, adept at fighting on horseback.^^**Note**: Two-handed weapons and long bows cannot be used on horseback (by anyone, not just those with this talent). If you attempt it, they count as improvised weapons.
Music~Mage, Rogue, Warrior~You know how to play an instrument, sing, and write and read music.~Your musical journey continues as you learn to play more instruments. You know how to play a total number of instruments equal to your Communication.~You are a true virtuoso. You can play all the instruments common to Thedas. If you come across a more exotic instrument, you can learn to play it with 1d6 weeks of practice.~COM (Performance) or CUN (Musical Lore) focus~You have a natural talent for music.
Necromancer~Mage~If you kill an enemy, your Spellpower increases by +2 for a number of turns equal to your Willpower. Killing another enemy during this time resets the duration but doesn't add to the Spellpower bonus.~You learn the spell death syphon, regardless of whether you meet the requirement. You can cast it for 4 mana instead of 7.~If you go down to 0 Health during a fight, a spirit appears by your body for a number of turns equal to your Magic or until the fight ends. This simulacrum takes on your form and can cast any spells you know for no mana cost. You are not considered to be dying while the simulacrum is protecting you, but you cannot be healed until the spirit returns to the Fade. The simulacrum cannot be damaged.~WIL 3+ and Entropy Magic (Novice) talent~You hear the calls of the spirits of the dead, and when you call, they answer.
Observation~Mage, Rogue, Warrior~You notice things others do not. Choose one of the following Perception focuses: Empathy or Seeing. If you fail a Perception test with your chosen focus, you can re-roll it but you must keep the result of the second roll.~Analysis of your observation often leads to insight. You can perform the 'That Makes Me Wonder' exploration stunt for 2 SP instead of the usual 3.~Nothing escapes your scrutiny. You can perform the "object of your attention" exploration stunt for 2 SP instead of the usual 3. In addition, the stunt gives you a +2 bonus instead of the usual +1.~PER 3+~You have an eye for detail.
Oratory~Mage, Rogue, Warrior~You know how to work a crowd. If you fail a Communication (Persuasion) test when trying to convince a group, you can re-roll it, but you must keep the results of the second roll. You can't take this re-roll in an intimate setting or when trying to persuade an individual.~Your words are like magic. Each time you perform the 'Sway the Crowd' roleplaying stunt, you affect three additional people instead of one.~You can agitate a crowd. If you make a successful Communication (Persuasion) test when addressing a group and the result of your Dragon Die is 5 or 6, you rouse them to immediate action. You can't necessarily control what they do, though you can try with Communication (Leadership) tests, but they take your words to heart and act on them.~COM (Persuasion) focus~You are a skilled public speaker who can sway others with your words.
Poison-Making~Mage, Rogue, Warrior~You know how to prepare poisons, and how to use them without danger to yourself. Choose two Novice poisons you know how to make from memory. You can brew other Novice poisons as you find and learn their recipes.~You have learned how to prepare more effective-and more dangerous-poisons. You have also learned how to make grenades. Choose one Journeyman poison or one grenade you know how to make from memory. You can brew other Journeyman poisons, and make other grenades, as you find and learn their recipes.~You have learned how to prepare the deadliest poisons known in Thedas. Choose one Master poison you know how to make from memory. You can brew other Master poisons as you find and learn their recipes.~CUN (Poison Lore) focus~You've managed to survive the dangerous training required to make and use poisons and other useful but dangerous compounds. See the The Art of Poisoning in Chapter 4: Weapons, Armor, & Gear for details on how to use this talent.
Pole Weapon Style~Warrior~You can use the length of your weapon to advantage. You treat enemies up to 4 yards away as if they were adjacent to you, so you can make melee attacks against them (they can't do the same unless they also have this talent). If an ally is between you and your opponent, you can still attack. In fact, this is a common tactic.~Given a chance to prepare yourself, you are hard to move. You can set yourself with an activate action. Until the end of the encounter, any opponent that attempts to use the Skirmish stunt or the Novice degree of the Two- Hander Style against you must first make an opposed attack roll. If you win, your opponent fails to move you and wastes the stunt point(s). If your opponent wins, they may perform the Skirmish stunt(s).~You get the most of your weapon's design features. If wielding a military fork or two-handed spear, you can perform the Pierce Armor stunt for 1 SP instead of the usual 2. If wielding a glaive or halberd, you can perform the Knock Prone stunt for 1 SP instead of the usual 2. In addition, mounted combatants do not gain the +1 bonus for fighting against an opponent on foot when attacking you.~Training with Polearms or Spears group~Pole weapons can be cumbersome, but not in your hands. You can fight in this style with the two-handed spear or any weapon of the Polearms Group.
Primal Magic~Mage~You can create a small flame in your hand without spending mana points. The flame can't be used in combat but can set mundane items alight. It remains in your hand until dismissed. Creating and dismissing the flame are free actions.~Your knowledge of Primal magic is deep. When you cast a Primal spell, its cost in mana points is reduced by 1, to a minimum of 1. You also gain one new Primal spell.~You are bursting with Primal magic. When you perform the Mighty Spell stunt with a Primal spell, you can inflict the stunt's extra damage on more than one of the spell's targets. This costs 1 stunt point per additional target (so it costs 3 SP to affect two targets, 4 SP to affect three targets, etc.). You also gain one new Primal spell.~MAG (Primal) focus~You have delved into the secrets of Primal magic.
Quick Reflexes~Mage, Rogue, Warrior~You can prepare yourself for action in an instant. Once per round you can use Ready as a free action on your turn.~You can flip yourself up or drop down with lightning speed. You can go prone or stand up as a free action. (These normally can only be done as part of a move action.)~It is hard to get the drop on you. You may re-roll your initiative roll at the start of a combat encounter, but you must keep the results of the second roll.~DEX 2+~You react to threats speedily and instinctually.
Ranger~Rogue~You can lure common animals like dogs, wolves, and birds of prey (you can use falcon stats for these). The GM has final say over what sorts of animals you can lure with this talent. In addition, you may summon an Elite animal by adding +2 to the original TN.~Your time in the wild has honed your ambuscade skills. When you attack an opponent who has been surprised, you inflict +2 damage. In addition, you may summon a Heroic animal by adding +4 to the original TN.~You can now lure larger animals like black bears, brontos, halla, and even giant spiders. The base TN remains 13 for the Communication (Animal Handling) test, though individual animals of this size may be more ornery. In addition, you may summon an Epic animal by adding +6 to the original TN.~COM and PER 3+, and COM (Animal Handling) focus~You use your knowledge of the natural world to your advantage. You can lure nearby animals to your location and make them fight for you. Start by making a Communication (Animal Handling) test, which takes 2d6 minutes. The base TN is 13 but the GM may adjust it based on the area you're in and the orneriness of the local animals. For each degree of success, you reduce the time the test takes by 1 minute. If the test is successful, you attract an animal and can control it during the next combat encounter. When that's over or after half an hour has elapsed, the animal wanders away. Additional Communication (Animal Handling) tests may be performed to extend this time.
Reaver~Warrior~You can draw an enemy's life force into you through an attack, healing you even as they weaken. Once per encounter, take a minor action to activate this ability. For a number of consecutive turns equal to your Willpower, you gain Health equal to the amount of damage the target suffers on a successful attack, or your opponent's Constitution ability rating, whichever is less.~You are able to channel your own rage and pain into an aura that injures and weakens enemies around you. You can create an aura of pain with an activate action. While it's active, once per turn you may elect to take 1d6 penetrating damage to inflict 1d6+Willpower Penetrating damage on all enemies within 6 yards of you. Maintaining this ability is a free action.~The death of your foes lends speed to your step and swiftness to your reflexes. Immediately after you kill a foe in combat, you can make another attack against a different foe in range as a free action. If no foe is in range, you may instead perform a free Move action to put you in range of a new target. If you kill your foe with the free attack, you do not get another free attack or move.~STR and CON 3+, and must perform arcane ritual that involves drinking the blood of a dragon~You drink deeply of death and use it to make yourself stronger.
Runecrafting~Mage, Rogue, Warrior~You can inscribe a Novice rune onto a suit of armor or a weapon. A Novice rune takes 2 hours to inscribe. You can do it faster with a successful TN 13 Cunning (Enchantment) test. Each degree of success reduces the time by 15 minutes. If your Dragon Die result was 3, for example, you'd do it 45 minutes faster.~You can inscribe a Journeyman rune onto a suit of armor or a weapon. A Journeyman rune takes 3 hours to inscribe. You can do it faster with a successful TN 15 Cunning (Enchantment) test. Each degree of success from the Dragon Die reduces the time by 15 minutes.~You can inscribe a Master rune onto a suit of armor or a weapon. A Master rune takes 4 hours to inscribe. You can do it faster with a successful TN 17 Cunning (Enchantment) test. Each degree of success from the Dragon Die reduces the time by 15 minutes.~Dwarf or Tranquil mage, CUN 3+, and CUN (Enchantment) focus~You are a trained enchanter, able to inscribe runes onto armor and weapons.
Scouting~Rogue~You can use the lay of the land to your advantage. If you fail a Dexterity (Stealth) test, you can re-roll it, but you must keep the results of the second roll.~You know how to get the drop on your enemies. You can perform the Seize the Initiative stunt for 2 stunt points instead of the usual 4.~You are a skilled observer. If you fail a Perception (Seeing) test, you can re-roll it, but you must keep the results of the second roll.~DEX 2+~You are skilled at the art of reconnaissance.
Shadow~Rogue~You are a master of stealth. With an activate action, you can enter Shadow mode and gain the following benefits. You gain a +1 bonus on Dexterity (Stealth) and Dexterity (Legerdemain) tests. Opponents also find it difficult to land telling blows against you. They suffer a -1 penalty on damage rolls when making melee or ranged attacks against you. You can leave Shadow mode with a free action.~You can confuse and misdirect opponents so they attack imaginary enemies. While in Shadow mode, you can perform the decoy combat stunt for 2 SP. Make a Dexterity (Stealth) test and note the test result. Until your next turn, anyone attempting to target you with a ranged or melee attack must beat your test result with a Perception (Seeing) test. Those who fail still make the attack (thus using an action) but miss automatically.~You know how to choose the perfect moment to strike. When you Backstab an opponent in Shadow mode, add your Cunning to your damage.~DEX 4+, and both DEX (Legerdemain) and DEX (Stealth) foci~You live in the shadows.
Shapeshifter~Mage~You learn the Shapeshifter spell small animal form. While you've taken on a creature's form with a Shapeshifter spell, the following general rules apply. You cannot speak or cast spells. Spells you cast before the transformation remain in effect as normal, and you can pay mana when required to keep them going. You retain your Cunning and Magic abilities and your Health, but the rest of your stats are determined by the Shapeshifter spell you use.~You learn the Shapeshifter spell large animal form.~You learn the shapeshifter spell vicious beast form.~CON and MAG 3+~You transform into the shape of other creatures.
Single Weapon Style~Rogue, Warrior~Fighting with a single weapon demands increased awareness. If you take the activate action, you gain a +1 Defense bonus until the end of the encounter while fighting in this style.~You can create a web of steel with but a single weapon. Your bonus to Defense increases to +2 while fighting in this style.~You know how to fight several enemies at once. Opponents making melee attacks against you never gain a bonus on their attack rolls for outnumbering you.~PER 2+~You can fight wielding only a single-handed melee weapon.
Smithing~Mage, Rogue, Warrior~A novice smith has learned how to work with a metal's unique properties. Decrease the difficulty of metals used for their specialty by 2.~A journeyman smith is at home in a forge. Decrease base difficulties for their specialty by 2.~A master smith excels where others struggle. Decrease success thresholds for their specialty by 2.~STR (Smithing) focus~Smithing is a labor-intensive process through which characters can create weapons and armor. To model the time and effort required, smithing uses an Advanced Test. The success threshold and target numbers are determined by the following factors: Quality of the finished item, The amount of damage the item will cause or prevent, The type of metal. See the separate Smithing document for further details.
Spirit Healer~Mage~You have learned to summon spirits. You learn the Spirit Healer spell group heal. To cast it and other Spirit Healer spells (that is, spells requiring you to have the Spirit Healer specialization), you must first enter Summoning mode. This requires an activate action and a successful TN 14 Magic (Spirit) test. If you fail and roll triples, you must roll on the Magical Mishaps table (see Chapter 5: Magic). If successful you attract a suitable spirit and can cast Spirit Healer spells for as long as you stay in this mode. You can end the mode with another activate action, which releases the spirit back whence it came.~You learn the Spirit Healer spell 'Revival'.~You learn the Spirit Healer spell 'Life Ward'.~COM and MAG 3+~You can summon benevolent spirits from the Fade to heal people.
Spirit Magic~Mage~You can sense the mood of an intelligent being within 6 yards of you as a minor action. The GM must describe the mood in one word (angry, confused, or happy, for example).~Your knowledge of Spirit magic is deep. When you cast a Spirit spell, its cost in mana points is reduced by 1, to a minimum of 1. You also gain one new Spirit spell.~Your skill with Spirit magic is such that mana flows through you like a river. When you roll to regain mana points, you can choose to re-roll the dice but must keep the results of the second roll. You also gain one new Spirit spell.~MAG (Spirit) focus~You have delved into the secrets of Spirit magic.
Spirit Warrior~Warrior~You can wreathe yourself in mystical energy. With an activate action, you can enter Spirit Warrior mode. This grants you a +1 bonus to Defense and a +1 bonus on Magic tests to resist spells and other magical attacks. You can end Spirit Warrior mode with a free action.~You can channel energy from the Fade into your weapons. While in Spirit Warrior mode, your melee and ranged attacks count as magical. This allows them to inflict full damage to incorporeal creatures like shades. They also inflict bonus damage equal to your Willpower on demons and other creatures of the Fade.~You can overload your body with the power of the Fade and then release it violently. While in Spirit Warrior mode, you can perform the Fade burst stunt for 4 SP. A coruscating wave of energy causes 1d6 penetrating damage to all enemies within 4 yards of you. Demons and other creatures of the Fade take 1d6 + your Willpower penetrating damage instead.~MAG and WIL 3+~You harness the power of the Fade.
Templar~Warrior~You have learned mental techniques that help you resist magic. You gain a +2 bonus on tests to resist the effects of spells and other magical attacks. If you have this power already (from the dwarf backgrounds in this book, for example) you must still take this degree of the talent but its effect is to increase your existing bonus by +1.~Your blows can drain mages of their mana. When you do damage to a mage (or any creature that uses mana) with a melee attack, your target loses 1d6 + your Magic mana points in addition to taking normal damage.~You can cleanse an area of ongoing magic. This is a major action and the concentration required is such that you suffer a -2 penalty to Defense until the beginning of your next turn. All ongoing spells within 6 yards of you, whether cast by friends or foes, end immediately. Spells that were only partially cast are also cancelled and actions previously spent on casting them are wasted.~MAG and STR 3+~The Chantry has trained you to deal with mages.
Thievery~Rogue~You don't let locks stand in your way. If you fail a Dexterity (Lock Picking) test, you can re-roll it, but you must keep the results of the second roll.~You are familiar with many types of traps. If you fail a Dexterity (Traps) test, you can re-roll it, but you must keep the results of the second roll.~You know how to find what's hidden. If you fail a Perception (Searching) test, you can re-roll it, but you must keep the results of the second roll.~DEX 3+~What's yours is yours and what's theirs is yours too.
Thrown Weapon Style~Rogue, Warrior~Your accuracy is uncanny. You gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls with throwing weapons.~You can ready a throwing weapon in an instant. You can reload a throwing weapon as a free action instead of a minor action.~You know how to bypass your enemy's armor. When you perform the Pierce Armor stunt, your damage is penetrating. (That stunt normally halves your opponent's armor rating, but penetrating damage allows you to ignore it altogether.)~Training with the Axes, Light Blades, or Spears group~You are adept with throwing weapons.
Trap-Making~Mage, Rogue, Warrior~You know how to set and disarm simple traps with up to 2d6 base damage and up to one additional effect. (You can choose a different additional effect for each trap you set.) You have a +1 bonus to understand the nature of traps set by others, and to disarm them.~You know how to set and disarm more dangerous and complex traps with up to 4d6 base damage and up to two additional effects each. You have a +2 bonus to understand the nature of traps set by others, and to disarm them.~You know how to set and disarm fiendish and lethal traps with up to 6d6 base damage and as many additional effects as you wish. You have a +3 bonus to understand the nature of traps set by others, and to disarm them.~DEX (Crafting) focus~You've learned how to design and build devices to harm and ensnare your enemies. See The Technique of Traps in Chapter 4: Weapons, Armor, & Gear for details on how to use this talent.
Two-Hander Style~Warrior~The length of your weapon and the power of your attacks forces foes to yield ground. When you hit with a melee attack with a two-handed weapon, you can move the target 2 yards in any direction.~You can strike fearsome blows with your weapon. You can perform the Mighty Blow stunt for 1 stunt point instead of the usual 2 when wielding a two-handed weapon.~You and your weapon are as one. When wielding a two-handed weapon, you can choose to re-roll your damage, but you must keep the results of the second roll.~STR 3+, and training with Axes, Bludgeons, Heavy Blades, or Spears group~You are deadly with two-handed melee weapons.
Unarmed Style~Mage, Rogue, Warrior~Your hands are as tough as iron. When you attack with your fist, you inflict 1d6 damage instead of 1d3.~Your punch can drop the toughest opponents. You can perform the Knock Prone stunt for 1 stunt point instead of the usual 2 when attacking with your fist or a gauntlet.~You can't be disarmed, but the same can't be said of your opponents. When performing the Disarm stunt, you gain a +2 bonus to your attack roll in the opposed test.~Training with Brawling group~You know a thing or two about brawling.
Weapon and Shield Style~Warrior~You can use shields of all shapes and sizes. You get the full Defense bonus when using a shield.~You know how to get the most from your shield. You can perform the Defensive Stance stunt for 1 stunt point instead of the usual 2.~Opponents must work hard to get by your defenses. The shield bonus of any shield you use increases by 1.~STR 2+~You've been trained to fight with a single-handed melee weapon and shield.